### Hi there 👋

Hi! My name is Mark, and I’m a senior software engineer with over 14+ years of experience in building software intensive systems. My career has pivoted from programmer/developer to people manager and now to CloudOps + DevOps and platform teams. I have worked in many cross-functional engineering roles across startups, scaleups, and fortune 500's, spanning work locations in Sri Lanka, Singapore, Japan, and Norway. I have experience across a spectrum of business domains such as fintech, proptech, energy/oil/gas, ERP systems, supply chain logistics, robotic warehouse automation, and healthcare. As a people manager, I have led multiple engineering teams in building out technical roadmaps, products, and features, that aligned with business north star metrics, drove business growth, and moved the needle on key engineering/business/quality metrics.

My technical expertise spans a variety of languages and tech stacks, beginning in C++ (Win32 development), Java, C#/VB + the wider .NET ecosystem, later to JS/TS/Node based stacks, and recently to .NET core. I have designed and implemented large scale distributed/reactive systems that used high-speed messaging, actor frameworks, domain driven design, micro-service patterns, and event sourcing. I have developed containerized applications running on AWS, managing everything from development to CI/CD pipelines to production deployments + monitoring. I have also migrated systems to AWS Serverless platforms, provisioning cloud infrastructure via Terraform, and utilized monitoring/observability tools such as Datadog, AWS CloudWatch, and ELK.

Occasionally, I post articles [on my blog](markfaction.github.io) that touch upon interesting lessons from building systems on the cloud, software architecture, system design principles, and engineering leadership.
